the things that you take for granted
today will become luxuries in the near
future you came here for the truth so
let me unveil that for you in today's
video we are going to talk about energy
energy is something that you flip the
switch it turns the light on everything
is good and you ignore it for the most
part until those days when you don't
have it but what about brown outs what
about blackouts what about the shortages
all of that is now becoming uh front and
center and we will cover all of this
today beginning right here
Chevron says California plays a risky
game with climate and gasoline Chevron
warns its home state California climate
policies are a dangerous game that risks
causing gasoline price spikes and
shortages now while I'm not just talking
about this one particular aspect of
gasoline but that's the one people feel
obviously when you go to the pump you
see it you see it visually and that's
the type of thing that people talk about
at the water cooler they feel that every
sing single week potentially and now
that has really changed a lot with
people that are working from home
they're spending a lot less on their
gasoline and uh they're not too happy
when the boss has told them oh by the
way you got to come back into work now
this is something that I just want to
highlight keep this in mind it doesn't
matter if you're living in one place or
another but everyone's kind of
experiencing higher prices if you're in
California obviously much higher than if
you were in Texas for instance but
compare that to what we see in Canada
compare that to what we see in parts of
Europe where the prices are much much
higher okay and you have to start
understanding what's happening with
energy but broaden out zoom out and you
will see something it's that we are
beginning to have to become comfortable
or perhaps just dealing with it and not
becoming comfortable with restricted
access to resources and that is is our
future whether we like it or not and
that's why the two pillars of prosperity
yes there's the income portion which we
talk a lot about here it's the money GPS
but the other portion is preparedness I
have a video called pillars of
prosperity you type in Pillars of
prosperity the money GPS talks all about
that but there are those two pillars and
if you're not prepared well you're
basically just waiting hoping and
praying for somebody else to come and
save you because we are on this
trajectory that essentially states there
will be restrictions in what you can
access we saw a little bit of that in an
extreme scenario in 2020 but I don't
think that's the end of it what about
the proposed ban on gas powerered small
off-road engines what are we talking
about here well this is like um you know
you see those landscapers they'll be
using the riding mowers and they go from
one place to another doing so it's not
that only by the way a lot of others the
rule also imp applies to pumps pressure
washers golf carts and other equipment
under 25 horsepower and that's something
very significant because look if you got
endless cash you can do that okay I'll
just buy new equipment no big deal not
not an issue you got to use the electric
okay we'll do that that but how many
people are running their pressure washer
business that can't afford that that
can't upgrade because they just don't
have that income coming through okay
that that's going to hurt a lot of
people so you can see what's happening
here there's going to be bigger
businesses that swallow up the small
ones or they simply just go away and the
bigger businesses take all of the
business and we saw that again during
2020 oh Mom and Pop Shop you can't
operate no no no oh but the big
businesses the best buies of the world
absolutely you're good to go that's the
kind of thing we could be seeing on a
wide scale of course we have the Red Sea
crisis that's going on at this time
which has been you know prolonged much
longer than it uh would have you know it
was expected to at Le at least at the
beginning here and the prices of these
containers have gone up once again we're
not back to the 2020 levels but it is
getting very hot and that's a problem
because of course delays because of
course the you know if you're going to
increase prices that's going to create a
problem and is this another round of
inflation is this part of it well we'll
see not every route is affected by it um
but it does impact a lot I mean you'd be
surprised um how much is really impacted
at this point gas addicted Europe trades
one energy risk for another and what
happened you're obviously highly
dependent Europe being highly dependent
on Russia we need that gas and then one
day they basically say uh okay we're
going to cut Russia off but we didn't
figure out how we're going to get our
own gas they made a deal with Qatar Ah
that's right let's do a deal with qar
okay when does that deal start
20126 okay that's a problem what are we
going to do in the meantime oh we're
going to get G get that gas from the
United States very good for the United
States of course um for those companies
anyway selling that but you got to put
on the ship and you got to bring it
inefficiently over the sea and into
Europe well that's okay it's better than
nothing right at least you got your gas
but now they don't have this reliability
they've got problems and I'm sure costs
have risen as a result of all of this
never rely on one partner for anything
thing in this world okay it doesn't
matter this whole near Shoring friend
Shoring all of this stuff you've got to
have multiple partners always Europe
moves into a new world after a crippling
energy crisis gas prices are down less
than a tenth of their 2022 Peak High gas
reserves mean the market is relatively
Calm above the risks could be right well
here you can see the prices on this
chart you're gas pric are far below
their crisis Peaks that is good we don't
want to see them go back there but the
point is we haven't resolved the crisis
in the first place so you the individual
are taking the biggest risk because
we're just sitting ducks oh I hope they
figure out that energy thing so I don't
have to pay that much money as I did
last time nobody is self-sufficient
these days or at least partially
self-sufficient right look at this 100
50 years of exports and why there's
multiple reasons why I'm showing you
this do you notice the big big
difference well obviously China massive
change uh over the years no question
about it but the UK you see at one point
super dominant super dominant many many
years ago and that has been shrinking
over time getting more narrow and narrow
as time goes on you see just like a
reserve currency things do take a while
things can change and do you think that
many years ago in the year let's just
round it you know 1900 do you think
people were saying oh yeah the UK it's
going to be a much smaller piece of the
pie and China is going to take over I
mean they would have laughed at them
they would have called them crazy if
they would have said in 100 years from
now we're going to be dealing with this
of course not but that's the kind of
thing that we're dealing with
today okay just remember that the the
way things are today are not going to be
the situation tomorrow and that's why
it's best to be prepared at all times
the next generation of nuclear reactors
is getting more advanced all right
they're talking about alternate ways of
powering cooling constructing reactors
could help get more nuclear energy on
the grid and this is important of course
uh assuming it's done properly that they
there is more demand we need more energy
we absolutely need more energy and what
do they do typically they've got big
problems with energy it's always a
factor it's always a factor but where is
it coming from if you bring it a very
far distance resistance in the line
reduces that the costs are too high in
some cases many cases we need to reduce
the cost of energy and get more energy
usage that would be the you know the
perfect scenario and yet it seems like
it's the opposite but nuclear could be
those one uh could be that one thing
that enables countries to get cheaper
access to energy and potentially with
these modular nuclear reactors put them
in places where we couldn't have it
before and now we can start to develop
infrastructure in areas that you know
wasn't really abundant before good stuff
we could have good stuff are they going
to move in that direction I don't know
at least you know there there's some
positive news there ocidental CEO's oil
supply crunch from 2025 quote 2025 and
Beyond is when the world is going to be
short of oil we're not doing enough
digging we're not doing enough
exploration and the you know all the
rigs and things that are there um
they're suggesting that you know it's
they're drying up now of course when
they say drying up what does that mean I
believe the number is 60% so they say
okay this this oil well it it's
dry apparently 60% of that is still in
the ground but we don't have the
technology or it's too expensive to
extract the rest of that
60% so that tells you that it's really
just a factor of enabling new
technologies to then get that is it in
the form of oil or is it going to be
some other type of energy we'll see what
happens but uh Supply crunch you know
you can argue in some cases maybe it's
just artificial scarcity largest lithium
deposit in the world suspends output
this was actually from a couple weeks
ago from Chile and all you need to know
here is that it doesn't matter how big
or small if we are reliant on one thing
it could be disrupted at one point all
right what I would love everybody to do
is to join my live classes the live
classes the money GPS Finance live
especially uh relevant to this video
where I get into it for 2 hours every
single Friday where I get into the
nitty-gritty the Deep Intel that you
need to know so that you the individual
can be the most informed ahead of the
curve ahead of everybody else that's two
hours every single Friday and I hope you
join me link is in the description and
don't forget to hit that thumbs up
button on the way out I want to thank
you for being here today and I'll see
you tomorrow take care